---
id: 1708362033-chapter-5
aliases:
  - Chapter 5
tags: []
---

# Chapter 5

[[ch5statcrunch|CH_5Statcrunch]]

# Probability Distributions

## Requirements

Every Probability Distribution must satisfy the following:

- There is a numerical random variable $x$, and its number values are associated with corresponding probabilities.
- $\sum P(x) = 1$ where $x$ assumes all possible values.
- 0 $\leq P(x) \leq 1$ for every value of $x$.

## Probability Distribution Function

_Mean_ $\mu$
$$\mu = \sum (x \cdot P(x))$$
_Variance_ $\sigma^2$
$$\sigma^2 = \sum (x - \mu)^2 \cdot P(x)$$
$$\sigma^2 = \sum [x^2 \cdot P(x)] - \mu^2$$

_Standard Deviation_ $\sigma$
$$\sigma = \sqrt{\sum [x^2 \cdot P(x)] - \mu^2}$$

# 5.1 Discrete Probability Distributions

## Key Concepts

- Random Variable: a varaible $x$ that has a single numerical value, determined by chance, for each outcome of a procedure.
- Probability Distribution: a description that gives the probability for each value of the random variable.
- Discrete Random Variable: a collection of values that is finite or countable.
- Continuous Random Variable: a collection of values that is not countable.
- Probability Histogram: Visual representation of a probability distribution.

## Probability Formula

A probability distribution could also be in the form of a formula

> Ex: $Px() = \frac{1}{2(2-x)!x!}$ - Binomial Distribution

## The Rare Event Rule

If, under a given assumption, the probability of a particular observed event is extremely small, we conclude that the assumption is probably not correct.

# 5.2 Binomial Probability Distribution

## Requirements of a Binomial distribution

1. The procedure has a fixed number of trials.
2. Each trial must be independent of the others.
3. Each trial must have all outcomes classified into two categories.
4. The probability of success must remain the same in all trials.

## Notation

$S$ and $F$ are the two possible outcomes of a binomial experiment.
$P(S)=p$ is the probability of success.
$P(F)=q$ is the probability of failure.
$n$ is the number of trials.
$x$ is the number of successes in $n$ trials.
$P(x)$ is the probability of $x$ successes in $n$ trials.

## Methods for finding binomial probabilities

#1: Using the formula

$$P(x) = \frac{n!}{x!(n-x)!} \cdot p^x \cdot q^{n-x}$$

#2: Using a calculator

```
binompdf(n, p, x) - exactly x successes

binomcdf(n, p, x) - x or fewer successes

binomcdf(n, p, x-1) - less than x

1-binomcdf(n, p, x-1) - at least x
```

## Mean and Standard Deviation

For Binomial Distributions:

_Mean_ $\mu$
$$\mu = n \cdot p$$
_Variance_ $\sigma^2$
$$\sigma^2 = n \cdot p \cdot q$$
_Standard Deviation_ $\sigma$
$$\sigma = \sqrt{n \cdot p \cdot q}$$
